and the recording
welcome everyone through this week's IPL
d/deaf sync meeting
it's October 28th 2019
yes every week we go through the stuff
that we've done last week and then we
discussed in our open items we might
have um I start with myself so I worked
on getting IPL the rest I only work on
surgery and so the sad news is it looks
like we can't do assert it because it
would need an upstream change and
although the author of C bore so the sri
siva stuff isn't favorite and the
maintainer is not so I think the comment
I think in the in the notes and it's it
looks like it's not going to happen
I first posed another comment um so I'm
still fighting for it but it looks like
it won't happen yeah I I totally don't
agree with this decision
and but there's not much I can do I
guess so for now I would probably just
yeah I'm so there is already a rest
I pulled the implementation by someone
else which is not using survey and I
probably just use this for now so we can
just keep going and then yeah see what
the future brings but that's yeah kind
of unexpected so I expected I can
convince the maintainer but I can't but
we'll see this is the kind of answer the
way we'd give you someone showed up
saying I want unsigned integers in this
format yes we went copy and paste that
text yes yes I read so busy I also told
them I totally agree that if you have a
library you don't accept like if someone
comes in and says I wanted to do X Y you
totally don't have
in this case it's really let there is
basically an agreed-upon heck to do to
add text to to survey and this is basic
what I did for the zero stuff and then
this is already implemented in Tamil and
in message page
so basically three different authors use
the agreed-upon Hank to work around it I
think that's evidence enough to say okay
perhaps yeah that's something that
should go upstream and this is what I
was hoping for but yeah we'll see yes
so let's the Qin state yeah I keep you
updated if anything changes but I don't
really have it yeah I don't see big
changes they did not change um but this
also good news and because totally
different thing am I like a few months
ago I was working on the stack prototype
on the stack spec specification and I
found out that they are doing something
with checksums and they wanted to do it
basically have clearly appears with the
hedge they are using it in the check sum
and I said well you could use multi hi
Floyd
and they said great idea that's what
we're gonna do and so I'm gonna get to
write quickly a spec for them to use
multi hash it's digital mixer tension um
and the good news is so this is a
specification which is currently done by
independent people but it will go to the
OGC so the urgency is the matrix thing
as for refer to your standards and often
also or she sees ten has become ISO
standards so it basically means I think
it's good to see busy multi hash getting
into like this kind of circles and see
yeah a bit of option of it and so that's
pretty cool yeah even you are super not
muted and you should be super muted
thank you I am so sorry Ron I think
you're the next one in the dock order
I'm on the next one sorry I'm just it's
just doing the morning thing of catching
up and do that oops one of my items so
the tube things like that not huge this
week really
but user-facing schema Docs I really
want to get something that is that makes
schemers grah Keable by people outside
of this group even outside of the PL
engineering space that's just been a
niche that's been needing to be
scratched so currently working through
that I've got introductory material like
the material that I've got up so far is
okay I've shown up at this thing what is
it and then this would help you get that
in your head what do you what is this
thing and then it's I'm I have a version
on my machine that is restructuring a
little bit of the extra the additional
content to guide through more advanced
materials and that's where I'm that's
what else I'll be doing this week is
linking in that and then making it
consistent structure so that you could
treat that schemas directory as a
tutorial to get right up to speed with
it and understand it so that we're just
not in an echo chamber and hopefully
other people will show up and critique
our work with some understanding of what
we're doing and then maybe even start to
use it so that's my that's my big thing
really that I'm focusing on right now
the other thing was as a Kesha Kesha
no it's jeaious I peeled easy cache is
um is busted because the upstream
decoder basically no one in the
JavaScript implementations have been
abandoned because they were all just
Forks of Bitcoin with some hacks to make
it work for Z cache and and no one's
really kept them up-to-date or
maintained so that's left as he cache
see
DAG thing whatever it is no it's
national bag it's Z cash codec before I
peel D without a backing implementation
because the one that we're using now has
a security vulnerability in one of its
dependencies and it's not getting
updated and then that flows through the
fire ipfs so the ipfs needs to make this
optional because it's something that
doesn't need to ship to people mostly
unless they really want to use the cache
but I wrote an implementation a while
back a block decoder and I got that
hooked up last week so that it can it
replaces what's there and it's does it
have any dependencies I don't even know
if it's got any dependencies so it's not
any risk there of it getting ahead of
date and having dependency security
problems so that's that's in pull
request process but looks like it's
close to getting done I just pushed I
pushed my branch up just now I woke up
that's what I was doing when I was muted
because you commented that my code
wasn't there even though I say they were
updates so it's there now that's me
alright earrings next cool well I've had
a fun week again as the last couple of
weeks have been I have just learned so
many things about the go compiler and
about how performance works so a couple
pieces of small good news in case we
have anybody else try to join us on this
I've learned a bunch of new things about
getting the go compiler to tell me very
clearly how it feels so there's like
this one GC Flags incantation that I
discovered this week that's in the talk
I don't know how I ever lived without it
before oh my gosh it is so useful it's
also wildly undocumented so GC flags - M
gives you some short information about
what the compiler thinks about escape
analysis and where memory allocation
should go like keeper stack and so on
and GC flags quote it
M - M again does something completely
different
well okay no it does the same thing but
it does it with enough information to
actually be useful
the single M gives you like it just says
a bunch of things that are facts but it
doesn't give you any understanding of
how the compiler came to these
conclusions so I've tried to use this
before ages ago and I think it's
basically useless and two M's gives you
like this logical tree of when and where
and how the compiler decided something
failed escape analysis and so this is
actually really really useful so so I
learned a lot of things about the
compiler and the memory model this week
and also found some good documentation
that I should compile links to about
internal pointers and how the GCE
regards those and all of this is useful
because I've still been trying to figure
out where what the shape of the code is
that cogent should emit and how the
presence of pointers throughout the
structure trees will affect the
performance of the system overall and so
now that some of this new understanding
I think I can say pretty confidently
that as a baseline yes we want to use it
embedded strokes most of the time
because that's going to allow us to
amortize down the number of distinct
memory allocations that we use so I mean
that was kind of known but I've learned
a couple more things on top of that
which make the whole thing work much
sooner than this by the fact we want to
use embedded structs so not pointers
most of the time we actually do want to
use pointer receivers and lots of the
pointers and method calls because now I
have a little better understanding of
escape analysis from those extra flags
it turns out that putting a bunch of
pointers in the method signatures
doesn't necessarily mean that those
things are going to be shifted to the
heap it actually means that the compiler
just has a lot more freedom to decide
whether or not to shift
around so if you get lots of methods
that even if things fail escape analysis
in the leaf methods if the if those
methods can be inlined especially for
example then it might turn out that in
the context where they're used all of
that stuff never escapes and then none
of it actually goes to heat and then
it's actually really fast even though
you think there's pointers everywhere
and it doesn't necessarily cause
internal allocations leaning heavily on
the internal pointers semantics also
means we can have fewer allocations than
I thought so some of my worst case
imaginings last week we're just wrong
I'm happy to report so some of the best
abstraction ideas I've come up with now
is lots of embedded struggles and and
doing kind of a similar thing on the
note builder side if we have a node
builder implementation that actually has
a bunch of reserved space inside of it
for the node builder types that we know
we'll need for the children then we can
have you know the node builder for one
struct can when it's asked for the node
builder for it the member types inside
of it it can just return a subsection of
its existing memory and then that turns
into any internal pointers so there's no
more allocations in the same kind of
amortization stuff then if we do that
tree of the node builder stuff sort of
separately and then we have the inline
structure for the actual nodes and those
just separately they're returning lots
of internal pointers to each other and
the node builders need lots of internal
pointers over to the node tree that
you're constructing but that can
amortize down to basically one and one
huge block instead of being a fractal
Alex throughout the whole tree so that's
pretty good news that design is probably
roughly the direction that I'm gonna go
now but it's still not perfect and I
think I can just about prove that it's
not perfect because it turns out a lot
of the I don't know if I want to just
read this whole thing aloud I would
probably have some more writing to do
about like what exactly the limits
as engineering time approaches infinity
are here but I think basically it turns
out there's still a lot of trade-offs
where for the most part we want to embed
structures and not use pointers in order
to amortize down the a lock account that
much we already knew but then when we
start looking at the ways in which
people might use the data structures
that we've unfolded into trees if
somebody wants to reshuffle around a
bunch of the interior of the tree then
they probably start to wish that there
were pointers around again in whatever
specific parts of the tree they're
reshuffling because we don't want
pointers everywhere we failed at
memorizing analogs we do want pointers
wherever you're about to do a shuffle
right and so it pretty much turns out
that wherever you want the pointers to
be is determined by the transformations
that you're about to do but this isn't
actually information that we can use
another way that we're designing our
code generation right now we're just
designing code gem it spits out helpers
to do a bunch of tree manipulation in
general and if we don't know exactly the
parts of the tree that the user is about
to write further code to manipulate we
just don't have that information at the
right point in our pipeline in order to
use it I think the most optimal solution
we totally ignored our own development
time and we just had like a million
years to go tinker in a corner as we
would produce hang on a whole new
programming language Rod's muting but he
is laughing and he should be yeah we
were produced a whole new programming
language and probably something that's
built on like the category theory
recursion schemes morphisms sort of
stuff got a highly histah whoo
and if we had a programming language
like that then we could determine where
we want all the pointers and stuff to be
able to do the optimal truffles that
exactly match the actual logic that we
want to perform but that programming
language doesn't exist right now so
we'll probably don't want to build it so
that's frustrating but I I guess I
appreciate having this information
available now because now we can
definitely know about whatever solutions
we pick are going to be compromises and
I guess that at least makes me a lot
more confident that we can move forward
with a side compromises so yeah fun and
one other piece of good news Hana
started using some of the cut of Jen's
stuff to do some work and filled in a
bunch more of stuff for like cranking
out integer types and stuff and so we
have a little bit of usage exercise
their deformity like feedback loop to
make sure we're not screwing up that's
really exciting that's it that was my
week that's you still laughing no I am
used to call apparently someone is
thinking at somebody with that much
background in what we're doing listening
into this might think that sounds like
some really intense premature
optimization getting right and down to
that level for something that doesn't
even do anything yet so so to clarify
the the work of doing on understanding
the implications of various methods of
implementing this thing has direct flow
on effects to the API so what you're
doing now is is informing what we
present to the user and essentially
lock-in is that correct
a little bit a little bit more than I
was like it's determining where pointers
are ending up in all the maybe types and
a bunch of stuff like that
and and those are unfortunately things
that do leak all the way through to the
user facing API I wish there was a way
to make them not do that but there is
not side note one of the other things I
considered is hiding another whole set
of stuff under
under interfaces in the go code and
being able to switch out more of where
pointers are and are not then it turns
out if you do this then you lose the
ability for the compiler to inline a
bunch of methods and I'm fairly certain
that would in the details turn out to be
a huge mistake so putting that aside the
other place it shows up is oh right so I
was kind of frustrated to discover this
one but I'm seriously considering an
alternative to the note builder
abstraction because the note builder
abstraction kind of builds stuff up from
the inside and so you build a thing of
any wrapped around this keep going out
and that is the opposite of what I want
if I'm trying to do my memory allocation
and one hunk first and then fill it in
as I go
they're completely opposed directions
are flow how much I just go down have
our vo returned by the optimization it's
like if I call send it returns the value
it should be able to just put that
directly into the destination without
having to do any funky business I don't
know if that so the question with most
kinds of advanced optimizations is how
many other optimizations can it stack
with at the same time or like how many
layers of indirection can I put in
between point A and point B and have the
compiler still find that that
optimization works so I don't know maybe
some researchers yeah I think you
guarantee those cases in I think it's
guaranteed a most place in C++ I think
Russ does as well not entirely sure it
is a problem or this work the bit of
problem for boxing in sorry in rust
because like if I call something ask it
to return something
in miniature I passage something else
doesn't allocate something then you end
up with a problem where like you create
the allocation after you create the
thing so rest like it has to actually or
allocating and move into you allocated
spot so that if I could have visited
into like some location it should just
work
magically I would hope not
yeah it's probably worth exploring
I guess what I would be worried about it
is so one of the purposes of having the
node builder abstraction is so that we
can connect the Codex
to this node builder thing and that's
how we like trivially make the codex
like be able to use nineteen different
codecs those plugins over the same data
structure even though the data structure
might be code generator super
specialized right and so most of the
time when we're creating some new values
there are just getting put into the
abstraction of the node builder again
and because there's a bunch of interface
going on there the amount of inlining
that's available is minimal to none and
so at that point like I don't know if
our vo is capable of working under those
conditions like maybe it is just a quick
search did not show me anything yes also
always possible they call it something
weird and I mean concepts lately yeah
but I was looking I searching and I saw
some people indicating that it didn't
have it if you want to come Splunk
performance with me I'm kind of having
the ball over here wait I'm I'm sorry
just write shell scripts around the
compiler to like dump some benchmark I'm
gonna be like does this have a feature
yes or no and then it's that's one way
to get hard answers about this stuff I'd
love to I this week
kind of oh yeah I don't have well I
might try to bother you next week or so
just for fun anyway
aside from yeah I don't know getting
getting closer
alright I guess Stephen doesn't have any
update I guess so
also we have I have oh I forgot to
mention that on Friday we'll be off
because it's a public holiday here yeah
and there is other notes at the bottom
so Eric asked if I could do selector
stuff with other students Asian stuff
and I guess yes
no I thought okay
yes as this civilizations that was
complicated as I mentioned I guess like
just getting it work somehow shouldn't
be a big deal like we speak getting the
data someone who seaboard bank shouldn't
get beat you the point was I wanted to
use surname but if I don't use it it
shouldn't be like yeah hydroid so so so
anyway it's all bits so maybe what I'm
saying is the silver sages stuff
wouldn't shoot wouldn't and shouldn't be
a blocker on any other work I guess so
yeah but I actually have any plans okay
so yeah so I having planned in much
detail in my next steps but the idea was
to so we photo into selectors probably
is to look like so the plan is to look
into the Prosecco system what we
currently have and what's out there like
the whole Mikey for my stuff
he what what we truly have for this
order to be there and then build the
missing low-level pieces and then go
into those things the basis I want to do
this to look what do we currently have
and that's a bit he stopped at this two
days station step but now this stuff I'm
gonna be really interested in when you
get to it is I have a feeling that
you're gonna discover most of the same
stuff that I'm pulling my hair out right
now about like this memory Mart ization
stuff and rust is probably gonna throw
it in your face because it's rust and so
I'm just I really excited to see how
that shapes up yeah cuz I have good
lessons for me over here in another
language hopefully yeah yeah so I'm
still like I am a big and concerned that
my skills are not good enough to find
the most optimal solution but we'll see
so it's like I'm still discovering like
like the whole study stuff was certainly
like a good step to learn the deeper
into stuff so I mean I will see it's
amazing what bus can do in like how me
like you can do so many things in so
many different ways so I'm pretty
excited to see like how we can get I
produce stuff working that's cool cool
so one more thing that I didn't write
down but we I think we've talked about
this a little bit before in some place
or another but we should put some more
research points for all of us into
recursion schemes and that sort of stuff
cuz a much shorter way to describe some
of my update this week is I basically
discovered oh I want this data record
kind of abstraction for anamorphisms and
for almost any other kind of more
complicated morphism then I need a
totally different abstraction that has
different memory problems it turns out
that these memory amortization things
are like
completely isomorphic to the morphism
categories and that blew my mind and
made it much easier reason about
everything that followed and I have a
feeling that that's just gonna turn out
to be like really reusable knowledge so
maybe we should put some thought into it
in advance yeah so yep so if you have
any or any any good good things to read
or something I'm happy to catch up or if
it's just you just google it and find
whatever I find yeah I don't know any
good resources I'm like sort of getting
it through osmosis from a bunch of like
resources and some assembly required I
wish I had better links if we find
better links that would be awesome all
right is there anything else nope okay
then I close the meeting thanks everyone
for watching or attending as you all
next week